---
ignored: true
layout: post
title: Why a Static Website is Right for You
description: You are currently reading a static blog. It's lean and fast, and you should have one too. In this post I discuss what I use to build this site, and how easy and ridiculously cheap it is.
date: 2013-09-01
tags:
	- DocPad
	- S3
	- AWS
---
A static website is one that is rendered prior to publishing to the web. This is in opposition to a dynamic website that renders each page everytime someone requests it.

This may sound limiting, but is increasingly more common as there are service (often free) that handle the dynamic parts for you.

Let's take my website as an example.

It's a static website that is generated by the lovely [DocPad][docpad]. As of this publishing, it consists of:

- one configuration file
- two layouts
- one CSS file
- absolutely no JavaScript
- an index page
- a blog page
- and a few posts.

It's simple.
I'm in control of everything.
Hosting is fast and cheap
The content is easily source controlled

## It's so simple you could do it by hand
And people used to. It wasn't too long ago that [Microsoft Frontpage rocked the static website world](http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/a_bad_workman_always_blames_his_tools "Don't blame the tool, blame the carpenter") by allowing anyone with a computer and bad taste to create a website.

## I put it together and published to AWS S3 in a day

## My posts are stored in GitHub, not a database that I forget to back up


## I have no JavaScript
Not on the client side anyway. One of my favourite benefits has been the ability to apply any DOM tranformations BEFORE it reaches the client. Highlight.js is a popular javascript library that highlights  

## Content Delivery Networks are bread and butter
CDN's can be a hard thing to get right in the publishing pipeline. Well, not so much anymore. As the entire site is static, the process for deploying to a CDN is similar, and in my case, as I use S3, exactly the same.
I use Grunt.js and a plugin aws-s3 to automate my deployment to S3.
I have a Grunt task that uploads my content to a bucket in S3, and a different Grunt task that uploads my assets to a different bucket in S3. Check out my source, it's literally a few lines of code.

 

[docpad]: http://docpad.org "DocPad - Streamlined Web Development"
[jade]: http://jade-lang.com "Jade - Template Engine"